# Internship Documents Generator

## Background Information 

This project is developed for Computer Engineering Department of
Namık Kemal University but it could be adapted for other institutions
who may benefit from a similar system.

Students at our department needs to complete 60 work-days long practical-work
at a company as an intern to be conferred with bachelors degree.
  
This summer because of the Covid-19 pandemic our department followed the suit offered our students
projects which can be done from their homes instead of on-site work. Demand for project-based
internship was really. We received over 300 project submissions after the deadline. 

Over-demand posed some paperwork related problems for internship commission.
Our university asked to fill a poorly prepared Word document from each student
and submit this form besides their project files and project report. Students are asked to fill
student ID, name, begin date of their project and their of their project
fields of this form. Committee members need to fill some other areas of this form and 
print and sign the form afterwards.

Unfortunately students didn't conform to a single standard when they filled this fields.
Some students to choose to capitalize their surnames but not everyone.
There was variability between font family, font size and text color choices.
Added to that form was a docx Word document :man_facepalming: It was really annoying to see
one page document rendered in multiple pages when you open it using LibreOffice.

If information about necessary information is recorded in a CSV file in proper way,
this program generates painful-to-work forms automatically as PDF files and 
also generates a dispatch/memo document where all the student internship 
information is present for evaluated internships. This document is given to Dean's Office
after singed by internship committee members

## Requirements 

* LibreOffice (This program uses LibreOffice headless)
* Go
* Linux system (May also work on MacOS or Windows but not tested yet)

## Installation & Usage

``` 
go get -u https://github.com/gusanmaz/InternshipFormGenerator
InternshipFormGenerator config config.yaml
```

#### config.yaml

All program parameters are read from this configuration file. Read all comments
on this file and adjust parameter values to your own needs

#### internship.csv

You also need to have a CSV file where all necessary student internship value is recorded.
Name/file path of this file should also be set from `config.yaml`

A simple CSV file with fields header could give some insight about format of this value

| Student ID | Student Name | Student Surname | Project Subject | Internship Begin Date | Internship End Date | Internship work-days | Confferred work-days |
|------------|--------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------------|---------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| 1850506803 | John         | Doe             | GPT4            | 22.07.2020            | 23.08.2020          | 20                   | 15                   |
| 1939567665 | Jane         | Doe             | Minix Squared   | 20.06.2020            | 20.08.2020          | 60                   | 60                   |

If an internship is on-site internship write company name to `Project Subject` field with a prefix of *@*.
For example if if student has interned at Google write *@Google* to `Project Subject` field.

## Template Files

You would definitely want to change form and dispatch template files at templates directory if you are to use this program in a different university.

## Example Output

You could fodt and PDF files generated by this program by using `internship.csv` and `config.yaml` files in Output directory.

## LICENSE

GPLv3

## Author

Güvenç Usanmaz

    
 